Add sentry-expo to RN Sentry migration guide (#8875)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/migration/sentry-expo.mdx

---
title: Migrate from sentry-expo
sidebar_order: 3
description: "Learn about migrating from sentry-expo to @sentry/react-native"
---

<Alert level="info" title="Experimental Support">

> The Expo support is currently experimental and available since version `5.16.0-alpha.4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo support is currently experimental and available since version `5.16.0-alpha.4`.
```

Experimental support means it may have bugs. We recognize the irony.

</Alert>

This guide scribes how to migrate from `sentry-expo` to `@sentry/react-native` in your Expo application.

## Remove `sentry-expo`

First, remove `sentry-expo` from your dependencies:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm uninstall sentry-expo
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn remove sentry-expo
```

### Install `@sentry/react-native`

Install the `@sentry/react-native` package:

```bash {tabTitle:Expo}
npx expo install @sentry/react-native
```

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install --save @sentry/react-native
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/react-native
```

> ### Fix imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fix Imports
```

Replace all imports of `sentry-expo` with `@sentry/react-native`:

> ```diff {tabTitle:JavaScript}

Reviewer: Wow, I didn't even know we had this functionality - cool!

- import * as Sentry from 'sentry-expo';
+ import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native';
```

> Replace `sentry-expo` exports `Browser` and `React` by `@sentry/react`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `sentry-expo` exports `Browser` and `React` with `@sentry/react`:
```

```diff {tabTitle:JavaScript}
- import { Browser, React } from 'sentry-expo';
+ import * as Browser from '@sentry/react';
+ import * as React from '@sentry/react';
```

> Replace `sentry-expo` export `Native` by `@sentry/react-native`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `sentry-expo` export `Native` with `@sentry/react-native`:
```

```diff {tabTitle:JavaScript}
- import { Native } from 'sentry-expo';
+ import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native';
```

> ### Review `Sentry.init` options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Review `Sentry.init` Options
```

> Option `enableInExpoDevelopment` is no longer supported. If you were using it, you can remove it and replace by `__DEV__` check or leave the SDK enabled in development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `enableInExpoDevelopment` option is no longer supported. If you were using it, remove it and replace it with a `__DEV__` check, or leave the SDK enabled in development.
```

```diff {tabTitle:JavaScript}
Sentry.init({
-  enableInExpoDevelopment: true,
+  enabled: __DEV__,
});
```

> ### Changes in default tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Changes to Default Tags
```

> Expo specific tags are no longer added by default. If you were using them, you can add them manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo-specific tags are no longer added by default. If you were using them, you can add them manually:
```

```js
import Constants from 'expo-constants';
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
import * as Updates from 'expo-updates';

import * as Sentry from '@sentry/react-native';

Sentry.setExtras({
  manifest,
  deviceYearClass: Device.deviceYearClass,
  linkingUri: Constants.linkingUri,
});

Sentry.setTag('expoReleaseChannel', Updates.manifest.releaseChannel);
Sentry.setTag('appVersion', Updates.manifest.version);
Sentry.setTag('appPublishedTime', Updates.manifest.publishedTime);
Sentry.setTag('expoSdkVersion', Updates.manifest.sdkVersion);
Sentry.setTag('deviceId', Constants.sessionId);
Sentry.setTag('appOwnership', Constants.appOwnership || 'N/A');
if (Constants.appOwnership === 'expo' && Constants.expoVersion) {
  setTag('expoAppVersion', Constants.expoVersion);
}
Sentry.setTag('expoChannel', Updates.channel);
```

> ## Review `react-native-web` compatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Review `react-native-web` Compatibility
```

The `sentry-expo` package automatically switched to `@sentry/react` for `react-native-web` builds. This is no longer the case with `@sentry/react-native` which supports `react-native-web` out of the box.

> Note that some features might not be supported or work differently in `@sentry/react-native` on `react-native-web` compared to direct usage of `@sentry/react`. Please verify with your application that features you use work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that some features might not be supported or work differently in `@sentry/react-native` on `react-native-web` compared to direct usage of `@sentry/react`. Verify in your application that the features you use work as expected.
```

> If you wish to continue using `@sentry/react` for `react-native-web` builds, you can do soo. See [@sentry/react](/platforms/javascript/guides/react/) for more details about the web React package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To continue using `@sentry/react` for `react-native-web` builds, see [@sentry/react](/platforms/javascript/guides/react/) for more details about the web React package.
```

> ## Setup `@sentry/react-native` Expo and Metro plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set Up the `@sentry/react-native` Expo and Metro Plugins
```

> When steps above are done, you can setup the Expo and Metro plugin for `@sentry/react-native`:
> 
> - How to [setup Expo](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/expo/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, [set up the Expo and Metro plugins](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/expo/) for `@sentry/react-native`.
```
